---
layout: post
title: day 5 - on my relationship with my (smart)phone
permalink: /100days/day5
---

I like to think that I have a pretty healthy relationship with my phone. I believe in living in the moment and not being attached to my phone. Having a smartphone has definitely decreased my attention span and productivity though. One thing I've noticed is how quickly I now lose focus -- often, I'll take out my phone to check the weather, get distracted by the red bubble with a number in it at the corner of my Mail app, end up checking my mail for 15 minutes, put my phone away, and then realize I never did what I had taken my phone out for.

> People who allow technology to control them as opposed to controlling technology have an addiction that needs a cure. Technology should be an asset, not a distraction. (The Muse)

If you can't *not* use it, then you have to be more aware of *how* you use it. What do we gain from using our phones all the time? Convenience, for sure. Protection from feelings of insecurity when we don't want to or don't know how to interact with other people. It makes us look constantly busy, when sometimes we're just swiping between pages deciding on which app to check again. I also think of my phone as a storage device for memories of texts and photos with important people in my life, which is funny because who knows when I will drop my phone in the toilet and it could all be gone.

The other day at home I picked up the orange Nokia slide phone I won in a drawing context (hah, the irony, because I'm such a terrible artist) in 6th grade. I wonder what my relationship with my (not-so-smart) phone was back then. But maybe it's not so much about the phone, but the thing or the person we're trying to get at *through* our phone. Like recently, I've been less dependent on my phone, perhaps as a way to give myself some distance from certain relationships. I feel if I can treat my phone with indifference, I can prove to myself that I'll be ok and that life goes on. It's funny that my phone is tied up in so much of this emotional turmoil. Maybe it has become an extension of me after all, and I just haven't -- or am not willing to -- admit it.
