---
layout: post
title: day 20 - on midpoints (i)
permalink: /100days/day20
---

To be honest, I feel like I took this internship out of fear. Fear that I wasn't good enough at coding, so I didn't try hard to apply for opportunities in the US. I told myself that I wanted to be abroad and explore -- which was true -- but I don't think Hong Kong was exactly the place I had in mind. But eventually I accepted the situation, tried to get excited about it, and told myself to dive into learning new concepts and skills. But the first few weeks have been underwhelming. In moments when I felt I wasn't doing anything productive, I started comparing myself to classmates who were working at big tech companies, earning salaries that were 10 times what I was earning. I became afraid and frustrated that I would learn nothing or gain no skills from this summer that would end up as shiny stars on my resume.   

But what good was all this negative thinking? Absolutely nothing. So I slowly began adjusting my attitude, which has perhaps been one of the most valuable skills I've learned from this summer. I started noticing how though I wasn't necessarily creating supercool products or working at a well-known company, I was more aware of the fact that I was *learning how to learn*. I was becoming more comfortable with not knowing something, Googling, trying something new, failing, and repeating the process. And a large part of coding and learning to code is about going through this process over and over again. I stopped interpreting my being a beginner with my lack of skill, and no longer saw my mentor's expertise as something unattainable, but as something that I could also obtain with time. I reflected on the fact that though work was not 100% satisfactory, I was still taking care of myself physically and mentally and gaining more self-awareness by writing, exercising, and pursuing my personal interests every day. I might not love the work I currently do, but I still manage to get up early in the morning, keep a positive attitude, and try to make the most of every day. And as much as I don't want it to be, this is a very real part of adult life: the ability to persevere and make the most of less-than-ideal situations; the realization that not every day will be rosy and glamorous, and that work on most days requires a lot of grit and focus; the fact that sometimes in life we have to hold jobs that we don't necessarily enjoy, and the importance of learning to rise above that feeling and improving ourselves so we can do something that we love in the future. 
