---
layout: post
title: day 21 - on midpoints (ii)
permalink: /100days/day21
---

 Many times when I think about my past two years at Princeton -- a place many people long to be and where I'm supposed to have the best 4 years of my life -- I feel that I haven't done enough in almost every respect. I haven't taken all the classes that I truly want. I haven't branched out and met enough people. I haven't done enough extracurriculars or tried enough new things. I haven't stepped enough outside my comfort zone, which has led to my not growing enough as a person. So many "not enoughs," that I begin feeling disappointed and ashamed of myself, thinking that I'm wasting my parents' money as well as my own time. I think about the kind of person I was in high school -- ambitious, driven, self-motivated -- and wonder where all those qualities went. Or perhaps now I just have a better understanding of myself, and instead of looking for external approval, I'm taking the time to understand myself and allowing my interests to guide what I do.

 I think stepping foot into Princeton instilled a lot of fear in me. Fear that I would not "succeed." Fear that my image of being a straight-A student would be destroyed. Fear that I would not know the answer. Fear that I wasn't smart enough. Come to think of it, a lot of my experiences and decisions at Princeton so far have been dictated by fear. I largely stopped learning for the sake of learning and enriching myself. I studied to get the answers, as a way to prove that I was competent, because I feared looking otherwise in front of my peers. Interestingly, this mentality also allowed me to settle for mediocrity, as I found myself being ok with not giving everything my best, because I told myself I couldn't come out on top anyways.

The good thing about midpoints is you know you still have time left to change. You still have the chance to completely turn things around, and make meaning of your past experiences and create meaning for your future ones:

+ No more complaining about work. Remember how lucky you are to be where you are, and to be doing what you are doing, even if it seems difficult.
+ Take better care of your emotional and physical health. Exercise regularly, eat well and with constraint.
+ Study smarter. Keep up with your work during the semester, and learn not just for the sake of completion or obtaining answers. Learn because you really enjoy it, not because it's an obligation.
+ Branch out more. Try out for new clubs at the beginning of the year.
+ Go to more events: public lectures, shows, debates, etc.
+ If you really enjoy documentary filmmaking and photography, take on personal projects, aiming not for perfection, but for improvement with each one.
+ Learn to take time for yourself every day. Yes, it will be extremely hard. But know that this will be time well spent, and that this time is necessary for your present and future well-being.
+ Don't aim for perfection, but that you get something -- even just a little bit -- done.
+ Call your parents and sister more often.

Most importantly, don't let fear overcome you. If you never start, you will never have anything that you think you don't have enough of. The most valuable step is the first one you take out the door, because it's also the hardest.
